---
title: "[]{#_7q6alrladw8f .anchor}Una Doctrina Guide Vault"
---

# 

# Note-taking Methods

200815

As students, we take notes to organise the information we learn so that
we can refer to them later. They're a tool to retain keypoints and, when
done right, can be useful during revision/review, periods. To kick-off
the mini-series, I'd like to start with ways in which you can create
useful notes. First, I'll highlight the main note-taking methods:

1.  Outline method:\
    > A simple, organised note-taking method that is based on a
    > hierarchy of information. It is recommended to use different
    > bullet points to differentiate between the main point, the
    > consequences related to it, and examples. It is important to know
    > how you can highlight certain information to benefit you best, and
    > even due to its simplistic design it is possible to customize
    > based on individual needs. I'd say that it's **perfect for
    > subjects that have more structure,** meaning you already know the
    > flow of the discussion.\
    > ![](media/image3.gif){width="2.963542213473316in"
    > height="3.6267705599300086in"}

2\. Cornell Method:

> This system provides a systematic method of notes without the need for
> later editing. It's useful when organising ideas and is the best
> supplement to revision. The sheet is divided into 3 sections; one
> vertical line intersecting a horizontal line in an upside down T, with
> the right section being bigger than the left and bottom sections. The
> right section is the note-taking section to be utilised during a
> lecture or a reading session. Usually the right section uses the
> outline method. The left section is the cue column specified for cues,
> which can be questions, titles, and reference points. This way you can
> cover the right section when reviewing the notes and attempt at
> answering the cues. Finally, the bottom section is for summaries,
> allowing for quick revision.
>
> ![](media/image4.jpg){width="3.2916666666666665in" height="1.65625in"}

3\. Mindmap Method:

I am sure some of you have heard of this before. It acts as a graphic
representation of a lecture or a lesson, and utilises critical thinking
and analyzing skills to build notes that interconnect and relate to one
another. "When you think of the main idea, **your brain doesn't think
about a hierarchical format of thoughts, but rather in bursts of
connections** related to that central idea--and that's the foundation of
Mind Mapping." You can start by writing the main topic in the center of
the page and branch out the subjects under that topic. And these
subjects can also branch out based on definitions, cause and effect,
examples and applications. It is a highly customizable note-taking
method that can fit almost any subject being studied. The only setback
can be that it requires practice beforehand before applying it during a
lecture.

![](media/image1.jpg){width="6.5in" height="3.9722222222222223in"}

4\. Chart method:

Useful for distinctly (chronologically) structured lectures or subjects.
Charting is like filling in a table that condenses similarities,
differences, or broad characteristics of two concepts/objects/events.
Main topics are labeled at the top of columns, and the appropriate
information can be used to fill in below based on events. It is
effective as a summary and reduces the amount of writing necessary. It's
perfect when you're trying to take notes after class, or if you're
taking notes from a textbook.

![](media/image2.jpg){width="5.9375in" height="3.9583333333333335in"}

Alongside the methods I have listed above, I also highly encourage you
to colour code your notes. Let titles, main points, examples,
definitions, and references be different colours/highlighted.
Colour-coding can help the brain differentiate and focus on certain
information on a subconscious level.

Finally, the most important part about note-taking is that it should be
taken effectively, no matter the method used. Effective note-taking is
not about copying everything the professor says, but rather condensing
the information presented in a way that allows you to understand it
better, even after you look at it later. "You want to have a note-taking
format that will support your understanding and retention of main ideas.
When you have a system, you don't anymore have to spend mental effort to
constantly guess how to format each mental picture you're writing down."

References:
[[https://www.utc.edu/center-academic-support-advisement/tips-for-academic-success/note-taking.php]{.ul}](https://www.utc.edu/center-academic-support-advisement/tips-for-academic-success/note-taking.php)

[[https://leananki.com/note-taking-methods/]{.ul}](https://leananki.com/note-taking-methods/)

Videos I recommend:

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HORqBoGMDI0]{.ul}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HORqBoGMDI0)

[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVA7hbFxBcs]{.ul}](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wVA7hbFxBcs)

# Time Management

Time management is super essential not just for school or college, but
for daily life. Although falling into a routine might be repulsive to
some, planning the day beforehand can give a person better insight on
their lives, and the better the insight, the more you can control it.
Beautiful, isn't it? The more you plan, the better you become at it.
Allow me to show you my personal method of how I plan my day, taught to
me by my college counselor.

First, usually I plan at night before I go to bed, and I plan by
priority. I have a notebook that acts as a day planner, and in it I
write the most important thing that I have to do that day. Instead of
starting with a morning routine, I write the lecture times that I have
on this day. Even if the lecture is around 1pm or 3pm, that's the first
thing I write on the paper. Class and lab times come first.\
\
Second, I write my meal times. Because eating is super important and you
can't expect the brain to function on low fuel.

Third, I record all scheduled personal activities such as meetings,
employment, and athletics. Basically any personal commitment you have
can fall under this category.

Fourth, record any special activities you need to do or want to do on a
regular basis. Need to get cracking on that yoga? Or put in an hour of
guitar? Art? You know the drill.

Fifth, and very important, schedule a preview time (5-30 minutes)
immediately before each class whenever possible. Use that time to
quickly read through the lecture that you will be having. Just a quick
read through the powerpoint (if you have access to one) should suffice.
If you have a few lectures in a row, start reading from the last lecture
all the way to the first. I mean it when I say quick read, this is just
to prime yourself for the material so that you're not overwhelmed and
thus bored as a result.

Sixth, schedule a quick review time after your classes (again 30 minutes
max) whenever possible. Also look over given assignments and create a
quick plan on what you have to do to get that done.

Seventh, schedule your intensive study/review time for each class.
Schedule some study time each day for each class if you can. Schedule
those times for when you feel most alert and focused. It's best to also
assign regular and shorter sessions rather than long sporadic study
sessions. When studying, think more in terms of "how much much do I need
to do" and "how do I study this" rather than "how much time do I need to
finish this". Split your studying into manageable sections that will
ultimately make your time become more wellspent. I also recommend you
start your study session with courses you like the least or struggle in
the most. I do that because it feels a bit more rewarding when I get
around to my favourite subjects, and studying my favourite subjects
usually takes less time than the ones I struggle in. Dedicate the study
time from 50-90 minutes max. I personally use the pomodoro technique,
but it's important you incorporate 10 minute breaks between your
sessions.

Eighth, schedule a weekly review for each course. I usually do this at
the end of the week. It reinforces repetition. It's also a good time to
reflect on what you learned the past week, and what needs to be done the
next week. Sometimes I also roughly plan for the week ahead.

Ninth, keep some time for exercise. Because exercise is super important
for circulation and wellbeing. I bet you know this.

Tenth, and finally, label the empty blocks of time as OPEN, for academic
or personal needs. Things always change, and things don't always go
according to plan. Don't be discouraged when things don't go according
to plan. You can always do better next time.

Final, and I bet you're relieved for that, schedule a weekend for some
absolute fun (or any day that you're off). Take advantage of that day to
relax, play, do whatever you want. Do not think about studying (that
would be overkill), and enjoy that day to the fullest. Work hard, play
harder. Got it?

Also, in case something happens that takes out of your time blocks,
don't hesitate to reschedule those for another day. Just check to see
what times you have available the next day to complete it.

Lastly (no really), I encourage you to give yourself a treat at the end
of the day for a job well done. It can be anything from watching your
favourite shows to dancing. Whatever makes you happy. Just don't do it
at the cost of your sleep (sleep is important to). Now that I mention
it, I also add in the times I need to sleep and wake up in order to keep
track of my sleep hours. You don't have to but it can help put things
into perspective for you. Hope you found this useful!



\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--
